In the last couple of lectures we've learned how to define our roots and add some logic to them using
closures and also how to render data inside the blade views.
But there is also another way to group logic for your roots.
And this is called controllers so controller is class that contains the logic for specific routes in
the methods called actions.
So when your application will grow significantly beyond the basics that we see here you might want to
get a better organization of your code and controllers will help you achieve just that.
So your controller classes will be stored inside the app HDP controllers so you can see there is also
there is already something here and it is being generated automatically by Lavell.
We'll get to that later.
But now let's create our first controller.
So you need to open a terminal and run an artisan command.
So let's remind yourself what commands are available there.
Of course you can create this class manually but artisan gives us a couple of handy commands for generating
code.
One of them is make controller so let's run peach bee artisan make controller and you have to follow
that with the name of the controller class you'd like to generate.
So let it be the home controller can see the controller was created successfully.
And now let's check out the up H2 DP controllers.
Since there is our new home controller class so you can see that now we have the namespace declaration
and we have all our brand new empty home controller classes that extends the base controller class so
you do not have to extend any base classes in your controllers but it gives you a couple of handy methods
that we will talk about later.
So as I said controllers have actions and action is nothing else but are class method inside your controller
class.
So let's create one now using public function and call it home.
So it won't accept any parameters and it will just return a View home.
Now let's modify our route that we have here.
The which was just rendering of you to be a guess route with the same you URL.
And the second parameter would be the name of the controller which is the home controller followed by
the at sign and the action name.
So our action name is home
now let's test if that works.
So refresh the main page and you can see that it works.
So let's also modify the second route by maybe copying the first true definition and this is the route
for contact and the action name would be contact.
And of course the route name is contact.
So for this to work we'll need another method inside our Controller.
And we'll have to call it contact and it will render the contact view.
So now we have already two actions and you can immediately see that it is a very good way of grouping
the common logic that you will have inside your application and not putting everything inside the root
file.
So this looks much cleaner now if we remove the empty lines and remove this old definitions.
You can see that it looks much simpler
can also check if that works.
So so far so good and let's also modify this further root so we have a blog post route.
So let's add
further action.
Call it
it the blog post.
And now it has free parameters.
The idea and welcome.
Which is an optional parameters.
So it looks the same as it looked inside here.
And we can just move the body.
To the controller so just base it here.
And nothing changes.
It also renders our view.
But now we can simplify this file and remove the closure and just use the home controller.
Blog post.
So that's the same.
That's their action name or the method name.
Inside their home controller.
Now let's also verify if this works.
So yes it is fine now.
Now let's also open the terminal
and run peach B artisan route list and now you can see that instead of having action as a closure we
have we have name of our controller and action at the end of this lecture.
I like to talk about something that might seem a little bit too complicated to talk about at our current
state of knowledge about LA travel but don't worry this won't take long.
And also it will become much clearer later.
So I wanted to talk about how Lara does know where to look for the controller classes.
So we haven't added namespace part here.
Just the home controller the class name if you would open the home controller you can see that it actually
has a namespace that up HDP controllers.
So it's not anything magical nor hard coded inside larval.
It is actually configured.
So you might learn a useful shortcut.
Now that will help you in the future also go to the go menu and go to file so on market the shortcut
is come on to be on the windows.
It might be something else click that and find the clay.
Find a class route service provider the one inside up providers
so the service providers are a way of bootstrapping your application and it means registering some stuff
configuring some stuff.
It just it is just a place where you can define how certain parts of your application should behave
and this particular service provider is responsible for registering all your roots of your application
so you can see this class is defined inside the app provider's namespace and there is more of them here.
But the interesting part inside this class is the field that protected namespace and you can see that
it happens to match the namespace of our home controller.
The up HDP controllers it is exactly the same.
So this is the place where you would specify in which namespace your controllers can be found.
That also means that you can change it to something else if you wish.
When you get more advanced with flood other so each service provider has a booth method which is bootstrapping
method.
It's always called to initialize some settings to register some things.
So the only thing you need to know is that at one point it will call the map web routes method which
happens to define that the namespace defined inside this field.
This namespace should be the place where it looks for controllers so I know it looks a little bit too
complicated.
There is some calls to middleware method.
The group met up will talk about that later but I would like to slowly introduce some more advanced
concepts of how lava generally works and that a lot of those things are heads of sensible defaults but
are also configurable and can be changed.
So it's not like it's just a magical thing that it works that way and forget it.
You have to do it like that.
Some things you can change and one of those places where things are bootstrapped is the service provider
classes.
And this happens to be responsible for your roots.